EZP-30979: Content Version comparison of TextLine Fields (#898)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/extending/custom_fieldtype_comparison.md

# Creating custom version comparison of Field Types

!!! enterprise
    

>     In the Back Office, you can compare the contents of a Field Type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the Back Office, you can compare the contents of Fields.
```

>     Comparing is possible only between two versions of the same Field Type that are in the same language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Comparing is possible only between two versions of the same Field that are in the same language.
```

>     You can add the possibility to compare other Field Types, including the custom ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can add the possibility to compare custom and other unsupported Field Types.
```
?

    You can base the configuration on the comparison mechanism created for the `ezstring` Field Type.
    
    ## Field Type configuration
    
    First, ensure that the Field Type to compare implements the `EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\FieldType\Comparable` interface with the following method:
    
    ``` php
    use eZ\Publish\SPI\FieldType\Value;
    use EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Comparison\ComparisonData;
    
    interface Comparable
    {
        public function getDataToCompare(Value $value): ComparisonData;
    }
    ```
    
    This method fetches the data to compare and determines which [comparison engines](#comparison-engine) should be used.

>     Therefore, the `ComparisonData` object is specific to the Field Type you want to compare.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `ComparisonData` object is specific to the Field Type you want to compare.
```

    
    In case of `ezstring`, the implementation is:
    
    ``` php

>     public function getDataToCompare(Value $value): ComparisonData;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    public function getDataToCompare(Value $value): ComparisonData
```

    {
        return new TextLine([
            'textLine' => new StringComparisonValue([
                'value' => $value->text,
            ]),
        ]);
    }
    ```
    

>     Also, the Field Type requires additional configuration (e.g. `comparable_fieldtypes.yaml`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Also, the Field Type must be registered as a service and tagged as comparable (e.g. `comparable_fieldtypes.yaml`).
```

>     An exemplary configuration, in this case for `ezstring`, looks the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    An example configuration, in this case for `ezstring`, looks the following way:
```

    
    ``` yaml
    EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\FieldType\TextLine\Comparable:
      tags:
        - { name: ezplatform.field_type.comparable, alias: ezstring }
    ```
    
    ## Comparison engine
    

>     The comparison engine handles the operations required for comparing the contents of Field Types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The comparison engine handles the operations required for comparing the contents of Fields.
```

    Note that each Field Type requires a separate comparison engine.
    

>     When creating a custom engine, ensure that it implements the `\EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine\ComparisonEngine` interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When creating a custom engine, ensure that it implements the `EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine\ComparisonEngine` interface:
```

    
    ``` php
    namespace EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine;
    
    use EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Comparison\ComparisonData;
    use EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Result\ComparisonResult;
    
    interface ComparisonEngine
    {
        public function compareFieldsData(ComparisonData $comparisonDataA, ComparisonData $comparisonDataB): ComparisonResult;
    
        public function areFieldsDataEqual(ComparisonData $comparisonDataA, ComparisonData $comparisonDataB): bool;
    }
    ```
    

>     The engine requires also configuration similar to the following one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The engine must also be registered as a service:
```

    
    ``` yaml
    
    EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine\FieldType\TextLineComparisonEngine:
      tags:
        - { name: ezplatform.field_type.comparable.engine, supported_type: EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Comparison\Field\TextLine }
    ```
    

>     When configuring the engines, ensure that you provided both `ezplatform.field_type.comparable.engine` and `supported_type` tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When configuring the engines, ensure to tag them with both the `ezplatform.field_type.comparable.engine` and `supported_type` tags.
```

    
    ### VersionDiff
    

>     For the comparison purposes, `VersionDiff` is built by `ContentComparisonService::CompareVersions`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `VersionDiff` is built by `ContentComparisonService::CompareVersions`.
```
I think you can drop this, as we're still in the comparison context

# Creating custom version comparison of Field Types

In the Back Office, you can compare the contents of a Field Type.

> Out of the box, you can compare versions of the TextLine Field Type (`ezstring`).

Reviewer 2: This is true at _now_, but if all goes right, it will be outdated release, so not sure if we want to mention it now.

Comparing is possible only between two versions of the same Field Type that are in the same language.

You can add the possibility to compare other Field Types, including the custom ones.
You can base the configuration on the comparison mechanism created for the `ezstring` Field Type.

## Field Type configuration

First, ensure that the Field Type to compare implements the `EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\FieldType\Comparable` interface with the following method:

``` php
use eZ\Publish\SPI\FieldType\Value;
use EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Comparison\ComparisonData;

interface Comparable
{
    public function getDataToCompare(Value $value): ComparisonData;
}
```

This method fetches the data to compare and determines which [comparison engines](#comparison-engine) should be used.
Therefore, the `ComparisonData` object is specific to the Field Type you want to compare.

In case of `ezstring`, the implementation is:

``` php
public function getDataToCompare(Value $value): ComparisonData;
{
    return new TextLine([
        'textLine' => new StringComparisonValue([

>             'value' => $value->text,,

Reviewer 2: unnecessary extra `,`

        ]),
    ]);
}
```

Also, the Field Type requires additional configuration (e.g. `comparable_fieldtypes.yaml`).
An exemplary configuration, in this case for `ezstring`, looks the following way:

``` yaml
EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\FieldType\TextLine\Comparable:
  tags:
    - { name: ezplatform.field_type.comparable, alias: ezstring }
```

## Comparison engine

The comparison engine handles the operations required for comparing the contents of Field Types.
Note that each Field Type requires a separate comparison engine.

> When creating a custom engine, ensure that it implements the `EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine` interface:

Reviewer 2: `\EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine\ComparisonEngine` interface

``` php

> declare(strict_types=1);

Reviewer 2: Other way around :DD

```php
namespace EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine;

use EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Comparison\ComparisonData;
use EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Result\ComparisonResult;

interface ComparisonEngine
{
    public function compareFieldsData(ComparisonData $comparisonDataA, ComparisonData $comparisonDataB): ComparisonResult;

    public function areFieldsDataEqual(ComparisonData $comparisonDataA, ComparisonData $comparisonDataB): bool;
}
```

namespace EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine;

use EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Comparison\ComparisonData;
```

The engine requires also configuration similar to the following one:

``` yaml

> EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine\Value\StringValueComparisonEngine: ~

Reviewer 2: only this is needed for registering engine, in your example you registered 3 of them.

```
EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine\FieldType\TextLineComparisonEngine:
  tags:
    - { name: ezplatform.field_type.comparable.engine, supported_type: EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Comparison\Field\TextLine }
```

Reviewer 2: Rest of them comes out of the box, and handles cases you mentioned, but there is no need to redefine them, unless you want to override them, but then we are on symfony container grounds.

  tags:
    - { name: ezplatform.field_type.comparable, alias: eznoncomparable }
```

Lines 3-5 and 7-9 configure two [comparison engines](#comparison-engine) required for handling the content of the `ezstring` Field Type.
When configuring the engines, ensure that you provided the `supported_type` tag.
Lines 11-13 are for providing the configuration in case the Field Type versions are not comparable.
Finally, in lines 15-17 you configure the Field Type to be comparable by using the `alias` tag.

!!! note

    There is a difference in tagging:

    - Configure the engines with the `ezplatform.field_type.comparable.engine` tag
    - Configure the Field Type with the `ezplatform.field_type.comparable` tag

### VersionDiff

For the comparison purposes, `VersionDiff` is built by `ContentComparisonService::CompareVersions`.
It consists of array of `EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Values\FieldValueDiff`.
It is an object that holds `EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Result\ComparisonResult`,
which is specific to a Field Type, as different Field Types have distinct way of showing the difference between their versions. 

> The `VersionDiff` is used by the `EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Service\ContentComparisonService` containing the following method:

Reviewer 2: this sentence is now not needed, one as it not true, and twice is is duplicated but first sentence in this paragraph.

# Creating custom version comparison of Field Types

In the Back Office, you can compare the contents of a Field Type.

> Out of the box, you can compare versions o f the TextLine Field Type (`ezstring`).

Author: ```suggestion
Out of the box, you can compare versions of the TextLine Field Type (`ezstring`).
```

On the basis of the example provided above:

``` yaml
imports:
    - { resource: comparable_fieldtypes.yaml }
#...

EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Service\ContentComparisonService: ~

EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Service\ContentComparisonServiceInterface: '@EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Service\ContentComparisonService'

EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Registry\FieldRegistry:
    arguments: [!tagged { tag: 'ezplatform.field_type.comparable', index_by: 'alias' }]

EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Registry\FieldRegistryInterface: '@EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Registry\FieldRegistry'

EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Registry\ComparisonEngineRegistry:
    arguments: [!tagged { tag: 'ezplatform.field_type.comparable.engine', index_by: 'supported_type' }]

EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Registry\ComparisonEngineRegistryInterface: '@EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Registry\ComparisonEngineRegistry'

```

## Comparison engine

The comparison engine handles the operations required for comparing the contents of Field Types.
Note that each Field Type requires a separate comparison engine.

> When creating a custom engine, ensure that it implements the `eZ\Publish\SPI\Comparison\ComparisonEngine` interface:

Reviewer 2: `EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine;`

``` php

> <?php

Reviewer 2: cut it to first use line imo

declare(strict_types=1);

namespace EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine;

use EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Comparison\ComparisonData;
use EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Result\ComparisonResult;

> interface ComparisonEngine

Reviewer 2: I would move here yaml configuration for registerting engine and how to tie it with field type., so this
```
EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Engine\FieldType\TextLineComparisonEngine:
  tags:
    - { name: ezplatform.field_type.comparable.engine, supported_type: EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Comparison\Field\TextLine }
```

{
    public function compareFieldsData(ComparisonData $comparisonDataA, ComparisonData $comparisonDataB): ComparisonResult;
    public function areFieldsDataEqual(ComparisonData $comparisonDataA, ComparisonData $comparisonDataB): bool;
}
```

> The comparison is uses the `eZ\Publish\API\Repository\Values\Content\VersionDiff\FieldDiff` object.

Reviewer 2: All of those lines are wrong.

VersionDiff is built by `ContentComparisonService::CompareVersions``, and it consists of array of `EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Values\FieldValueDiff` and that object holds `\EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Result\ComparisonResult` which is specific to fieldType as different FieldTypes can have (and will have) different way of showing the difference between them.

It then is used to build `eZ\Publish\API\Repository\Values\Content\VersionDiff\VersionDiff`.

The `VersionDiff` is then used for comparing by the `EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Service\ContentComparisonService` containing the following method:

``` php

> namespace eZ\Publish\API\Repository;

Reviewer 2: namespace EzSystems\EzPlatformContentComparison\Service;
